isn't it funny how we investigate
politicians and big corporations about
their collusion to find out what their
special interests are but we don't do
the same thing for average individuals
so let's discuss that briefly today you
talk with somebody in person or perhaps
you see something on the internet on
television in the newspapers and it's an
individual who has a position on
something for example you go to a
YouTube channel and they tell you that
gold is the greatest thing and it just
so happens that that individual owns a
company that sells gold so what is the
incentive surely they have an incentive
to sell that goal and does that mean
that that person doesn't believe in gold
absolutely not they may believe in it
that's why they're in that business but
there's incentive you don't want to make
gold look bad if you're selling it as
your business now what about an
individual who is heavily invested in a
particular asset or asset class let's
say they're in stocks and they say
equities will rise forever or if they do
fall no need to worry because the
Federal Reserve will be there to bail
them out and so they go on and continue
and they will fight and they will talk
about these statistics hopefully they're
smart enough will bring up statistics to
show you why they are so intelligent why
they are correct and they don't excuse
anybody from this I'm just making a
point that can observation people will
always find a reason to back up their
points but never take the opposite side
how many times have you as an individual
read a book you knew that you probably
wouldn't agree with I know I've done
this myself
and it's difficult
do because the whole time you're sort of
arguing with the author about it and
that really isn't such a wise thing you
should just read the book through and
try and take the opposite side and think
to yourself am i doing the right thing
is this really correct because I'm only
listening to the people I agree with
well then there's really no point in
doing so so I like to always look at
different people's viewpoints from whole
walks of life and I want to know their
opinion I get a lot of opinions from
people whether they're in the industries
or whether they are just average
individuals I'm always trying to get a
little piece of information from them
anything I want to know what they think
for example the housing market in
Toronto I do like to take the average
person's opinion but then I talked to
the people in the industry as well and
what you'll find is that the majority of
people they believe that housing prices
will continue to rise at the fact that's
what they say and why because a lot of
these people heavily indebted they have
so much riding on the fact that that
belief is true let's say I owned one
thousand ounces of gold okay and I
really needed that goal to go from where
it was because let's say I bought it at
1500 and I want to sell it at let's say
2000 well I really want to believe
that's going to go to 2000 so I'll get
all these statistics I'll put them
together and I'll show you those but I
won't show you the other statistics
which might make it look bad
because that's not something I want to
do people do this in every single asset
class they do this on other arguments as
well why this car is better than that
car they'll tell you this car is the
best car you can get and it's worth the
money and prove all the statistics how
much horsepower it has and this
but they may overlook some other
features they overlook other things that
the average person may not even care to
look into but they try to prove that
point and that's really what I'm trying
to get at is that always look at what
people are in with their skin in the
game we need to know that when you're
arguing something when you're talking
with somebody understand what they have
their interests are I think that's
important to know this is a total
different side of what we normally look
at and before even getting into
financial stuff I read psychology
psychology was something that at that
time I was into something totally
different
I read book after book after book trying
to get myself used to that understanding
the mentality of the human beings and
that has allowed me to really make sense
of what's going on within the industry
and people ultimately will back up back
themselves up no matter how bad things
get if they're in a stock and it drops
from let's say $100 to $1.00 even at the
$1 they'll still trying to convince
themselves and you that that was the
correct choice many people won't admit
it but what I wanted to just stress was
that understand when somebody's trying
to sell not necessarily sell but let's
say in a different sense sell to you
understand what their incentive are are
they just trying to bring out
information or they trying to bring the
truth to you or are they trying to sell
something to you a belief system or a
product or a service or something
understand the truth behind that I think
that's very important I think it's often
overlooked I just want to bring that up
that's a psychology side and something
that I think people should pay more
- so that's all for this video just
wanted to say that I appreciate all of
your support please give me a thumbs up
on these videos all the videos subscribe
to this channel if you haven't already I
do videos every single day basically and
this is one channel that has taken some
heat as you know so I appreciate all the
support that you've been giving me thank
you very much everyone and take care
have a good night